# Towards-a-food-secure-Singapore
Towards a food secure Singapore
In recent years, there have been a push by the Singapore government towards greater food security, especially given the vulnerability of our food supply being tested by the decrease in global production brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic. Several urban farms have developed around Singapore in recent years, sparking astonishment and excitement over their capacity to grow food in a congested urban setting. While agriculture may conjure up thoughts of huge open fields of crops, these urban farms have redefined what city farming looks like in their own unique ways.

The problem is the lack of time, knowledge, and resources for Singaporeans to participate in urban farming. Due to rapid urbanisation, land resources in Singapore for agriculture have been decreasing [1] while population growth increased the demand for food. This has led to led to low local food production, with over 90% reliance on imported food [2]. Unfortunately, a country that is largely reliant on imports will be exposed to global food market disruptions [3]. Furthermore, because more resources are required to pack, store, and transport food, the overall embodied energy of food has increased contribute to increasing carbon emissions, exacerbating the effects of climate change [4]. While Singapore is considered a food secure country thanks to its diverse import portfolio to over 170 countries [5], the growing threat that climate change poses to our imported food supplies [6] highlights the growing need for urban agriculture.


To ensure food security, Singapore has turned indoor farms to increase local food production. Indoor farms make use of technologies to control variables such as temperature, humidity, light and nutrient, to be more resource-efficient and productive in land-scarce Singapore. Currently, the majority of urban agriculture is practised on commercial farms, with rooftop farms/gardens, rooftop greenhouses, and indoor farms, the three main types of farming [7]However, given their modest production of high-value produce primarily meant for restaurants, sceptics doubt the ability of urban farms' to contribute towards Singapore's food security. Commercial farms are also observed to occupy small plots of leased land and rooftops [8], which limits ordinary Singaporeans from participating in agriculture and growth in food production for widespread consumption. Rooftop farms also find it difficult to break into a market dominated by "deflated pricing" due to poor economies of scale and costly production components. The expenses related to renting rooftops, which can be in the thousands, as well as growing labour cost, also makes it difficult of local farmers to price their produce competitively [9].


To support the government’s goal of producing 30 per cent of Singapore’s nutritional needs by 2030, the National Parks Board [10] have launched an initiative called “Gardening with Edibles”. Under this programme, the government distributed free seed packets to interested members of the public and published gardening resources on its website [10]. However, the lack of time, expertise, and availability of resources such as places with adequate sunlight are frequently cited hurdles for individuals in the community to participate in urban farming, in a densely populated and urbanised nation like Singapore [11]. The provision of seeds does not address the barriers for members of the public to participate in urban agriculture. Furthermore, consumers in cities may also be wary of eating food grown in close proximity to building and vehicle pollution [4], [12], and the adoption of innovative soilless production technologies may further discourage them from embracing urban products [7], [13]. This has led to the observation that most gardens in Singapore, grow mostly ornamentals and are not oriented towards agriculture [14]. Traditional farming methods are also labour intensive [9] which may not be attractive in Singapore. Therefore, while the distribution of seeds for edible plants is the right step towards our goal of strengthening food security, an innovative solution is needed to make urban agriculture accessible to everyone while reducing the embodied energy in our foods.


In conclusion, given Singapore’s limited resources, significant barriers to entry for Singaporeans to urban agriculture, and the limitations of current government initiatives, an innovative solution is needed to improve our food security.

References
[1] P. Munguia-Fragozo et al., “Perspective for Aquaponic Systems: ‘Omic’ Technologies for Microbial Community Analysis,” Biomed Res. Int., vol. 2015, 2015, doi: 10.1155/2015/480386.
[2] Singapore Food Agency, “Food for Thought | Detail.” https://www.sfa.gov.sg/food-for-thought/article/detail/ava%27s-food-security-roadmap-for-singapore (accessed Aug. 30, 2021).
[3] M. Armar-klemesu, “Urban agriculture and food security, nutrition and health.,” pp. 99–117, 2000, Accessed: Aug. 30, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.cabdirect.org/cabdirect/abstract/20003032308.
[4] S. T. Lovell, “Multifunctional Urban Agriculture for Sustainable Land Use Planning in the United States,” vol. 2, pp. 2499–2522, 2010, doi: 10.3390/su2082499.
[5] C. Tortajada, “Singapore’s Impressive Food Security – The Diplomat,” Sep. 06, 2015. https://thediplomat.com/2015/09/singapores-impressive-food-security/ (accessed Aug. 30, 2021).
[6] K. Benke and B. Tomkins, “Future food-production systems: vertical farming and controlled-environment agriculture,” vol. 13, no. 1, 2018, doi: 10.1080/15487733.2017.1394054.
[7] K. Specht et al., “Urban agriculture of the future: an overview of sustainability aspects of food production in and on buildings,” Agric. Hum. Values 2013 311, vol. 31, no. 1, pp. 33–51, May 2013, doi: 10.1007/S10460-013-9448-4.
[8] Urban Redevelopment Authority, “Urban Farming.” https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Get-Involved/Plan-Our-Future-SG/Innovative-Urban-Solutions/Urban-Farming (accessed Aug. 30, 2021).
[9] E. L. Goh, “Rooftop Farming in Singapore: Pockets ofHope?,” 2017.
[10] National Parks Board, “Gardening with Edibles - Gardening - National Parks Board (NParks).” https://www.nparks.gov.sg/gardening/gardening-with-edibles (accessed Aug. 30, 2021).
[11] M. L. W. Chong, Zhi Yi Benjamin; Lam, Xian Li Nicol; Osckar, Nixon; Zeno, “NeoFarm: Smart Urban Farming – Engineering Design & Innovation Centre,” 2012. https://www.eng.nus.edu.sg/idp/project-themes/innovating-for-sustainable-cities/neofarm/ (accessed Aug. 30, 2021).
[12] R. C. Miner and S. R. Raftery, “Turning brownfields into ‘green fields’: growing food using marginal lands,” WIT Trans. Ecol. Environ., vol. 162, no. 2, doi: 10.2495/EID120361.
[13] E. Sanyé-Mengual, I. Anguelovski, J. Oliver-Solà, J. I. Montero, and J. Rieradevall, “Resolving differing stakeholder perceptions of urban rooftop farming in Mediterranean cities: promoting food production as a driver for innovative forms of urban agriculture,” Agric. Hum. Values 2015 331, vol. 33, no. 1, pp. 101–120, Mar. 2015, doi: 10.1007/S10460-015-9594-Y.
[14] L. H. H. Tan and H. Neo, “‘Community in Bloom’: local participation of community gardens in urban Singapore,” http://dx.doi.org.libproxy1.nus.edu.sg/10.1080/13549830902904060, vol. 14, no. 6, pp. 529–539, Jul. 2009, doi: 10.1080/13549830902904060.
